Previously on
Supergirl...
The Phantom, he's a bloodhound.
If we can get our hands
on more of Kara's DNA...
Then he'll track her
by instinct.
How are we gonna get
more of Kara's DNA?
We can collect DNA
from a Kryptonian
after a solar flare.
This is what my dreams
have been about.
If we wanna bring Kara home,
we have to go back in time...
to Midvale High.
Alex and Nia were right.
Behold, the May 25th, 2009
Midvale Weekly.
Huh.
-The week
of Midvale High's prom.
The same night
as the Aquarid meteor shower.
This is
where we need to go
to save Supergirl?
Yeah, I was back
from Stanford on vacation.
I just dropped Kara off
at the school assembly hall
for prom,
and, uh, with a jacket.
It was oddly cold that night,
and that's when the shower hit,
and then this giant meteor
just came
bearing down and Kara flew up
and punched it out of the sky.
But the meteor had Kryptonite.
The impact was enough
to destroy the meteor,
but Kara got pretty hurt.
She fell through
the roof of the gym.
No one saw her?
It was under construction,
and when I found her,
her hand was all cut up.
It was the first time
I ever saw her bleed.
How specifically do we get
to this place in time?
Well, based on my survey
of satellite imagery from 2009,
and the trajectory
of the meteor,
I was able to predict
Kara's point of contact.
After running those figures
-through 3
-D modeling,
I produced a rendering
of the debris field,
and by overlaying that
with geologic
radiation emissions
of that same night,
plus, Kara's own
biologic markers,
I was able to pinpoint
the exact location
of Kara's DNA.
The high school's
baseball diamond center field.
Nia and I depart
after I gather my things.
Alex, what's this
business about
"The luckiest town in America?"
When I left for college,
Kara and her boyfriend, Kenny,
appointed themselves
the town's Scooby-Duo.
They were saving cats
from trees
and kids from wells,
that sort of thing,
and the, uh, town
got quite the reputation.
I thought Kenny Li
was killed when
you were in high school.
The sheriff was
running a drug ring,
and he got caught up.
No, that's one
of those old-world,
new-world differences.
In this world,
Kenny never got killed.
That suggests
there could be
other differences.
Maybe I should come with you.
Absolutely not!
As anyone who's seen
Back to the Future knows,
in 2009, you or you,
could both run
into your past selves,
and thereby disrupt
the continuum of space-time.
The only people
who can go on this mission
are Nia and myself.
Okay, fine.
But you're going to my past.
Don't mess it up.
"Don't mess it up."
Does this look
messed up to you?
In 2009, I was 12.
Is this really
what people wore to prom?
Yes, ergo, it is
the perfect disguise
to allow us to chillax
on our mission.
"Chillax" being
a key 2009 phrase,
along with "flossy, totes,"
and of course,
the immortal, "wassup!"
Oh, I forgot about "wassup."
My sister and I said it so much
that our mom
made us write essays
on the etymology of the phrase
to prove how ridiculous it was.
I forgot about that.
Anyway, you're not looking
too chillaxed, Brainy.
-Hmm?
-You're stress eating again.
I'm not... I'm not...
I'm not stress eating. No.
I just...
I never had breakfast.
So, you're not worried at all
that the last time
you time traveled,
you missed the mark
by 15,000 years?
It was 12,000 years.
All right, fine.
Okay, yes, the...
Maybe the memory of my misstep
has compounded my stress,
leading to caloric consumption.
But I don't know
what else to do.
Well, you're with me, and...
we're only going back
a few years.
Nothing bad's gonna happen.
For Supergirl's sake, it can't.
Come on.
Oh, Sprock, I almost forgot.
The most important element
of our disguise.
The ultimate optical illusion.
-Off the dash, please.
-Sorry.
Targeting temporal wormhole
in three...
two, one.
"With its small town charm
and nearly non-existent crime,
Midvale is quickly
becoming a top place to live
in the country."
Wow.
Where was this town
when I lived here full time?
Probably waiting for you
to leave.
Burn!
Midvale College, one,
Stanford, zero.
Oh, uh...
-Shake's ready. I'll be back.
-Okay.
So, Alex,
you still haven't explained
why you put off
going to Europe.
And you still
haven't told Kenny
about National City University.
I haven't decided.
Kara, you just got accepted
to the college of your dreams.
I know Midvale College
is solid, but--
And it's also where
Kenny and I've been planning
to go since last year.
I just... I just need to find
the right time to tell him.
So, you have decided
and haven't told him
-or you haven't decided, and...
-I don't know.
I haven't decided
what I've decided.
Engine malfunction.
Four overheating...
Chocolate shake.
Here you go.
Uh, thanks, but I just realized
-we're late for study group.
-Study group?
Study group. Right. Right.
You guys never do study...
Wait.
Are you sneaking out
to save something?
-No.
-No. What?
You promised me
you'd stop super-ing
when I left.
Now, you're fidgeting
like you do
-when you lie.
-Right.
Fine. We may have been
helping the local authorities
now and then,
but no one knows that it's us.
"Luckiest town
in America?"
Kara, you're the luck.
At least until you get caught
and you put Mom
and the rest of us in danger.
We'll stop...
after we check out
whatever just crashed
at the baseball field.
-No. No way.
-I can fly there
without anybody seeing me.
Trust me.
You are not flying anywhere.
I'm driving you.
Okay.
What was it?
Mm.
Tell me you can make
a non-fat double latte.
For a place calling itself
"the luckiest town in America,"
it is proving quite unlucky
when it comes to caffeine.
I drove three hours
from Metropolis
to do a story
on this rube-filled wasteland.
I need coffee.
Stat.
-Tick-tock.
-Yes, ma'am.
Ugh.
Alex was right. It's freezing.
That means that climate change
wasn't real then.
Our time relay box is broken!
-What?
-It'll take days to fix!
Well, then we're in luck.
We're a day early.
Masquerade themed prom?
-Our disguises are useless.
-Brainy, it's okay.
No. We have to fix a component,
replace its missing dysprosium,
and on top of that,
locate new costumes.
Brainy, you can do everything
you're talking about.
We have 24 hours.
All we have to worry about
is not being seen.
Oh, my gosh.
Did you guys
just come out that spaceship?
Kara?
Wassup?
Y... you spoke English?
He said my name.
Are people
from your planet psychic?
-Yes.
-Yeah, exactly.
Yes, we are.
-We're psychic aliens.
-Psychic aliens.
-Mm-hmm. Ah...
-From planet Psycon.
Why are you dressed like that?
-Well... um...
-Uh, well...
When visiting another planet,
we like to dress formally to--
-To show respect.
But we will be changing--
-We'll be changing.
-...right after
we fix our ship.
Your ship's broken?
-No.
-Yes.
-Can I just have
a minute with, uh, my--
-Just one.
My fellow Psyconian?
-Just...
-Stay frosty.
We'll be one moment.
So, these are the exact people
we are not supposed
to be dealing with.
Yeah, um, but now,
we are dealing with them,
so, we have to figure out how
-to manage the situation.
-Okay.
So, the only management we need
is to get them out of here.
-We need to get out of here.
-What... what are you
talking about?
We have to help them.
You just promised
you'd stop drawing
attention to yourself.
If their ship is broken,
the least we can do
is help fix it.
Even if it means endangering
everyone around you?
To be fair,
they don't seem hostile.
I mean,
look at how they're dressed.
We...
My name is Kara Zor-El.
This is Kenny and this is Alex.
Uh, this is... Brandon...
-and I'm Brenda.
-Yeah.
-We are Brandon and Brenda.
-Yep.
I am an alien, like you,
from the planet Krypton
and I came to Earth
after my planet was destroyed.
I... I want to help you.
-Thank you.
-That's great.
-But--
-Um...
You see, we were also fleeing
-a dying planet like you...
-Mm-hmm.
...and we were
knocked off-course.
We only have one day
to catch up
with our fellow travelers.
So, that leaves us
with much to do
and very little time to do it.
Just tell us what you need.
We need to conceal
the evidence of our arrival,
fix numerous parts,
and lastly, locate
a rare Earth element
called dysprosium.
Dysprosium?
That's one of those
rare Earth elements
that your mom
is studying at work.
There may be a dysprosium geode
in the college's
Rare Earth Exhibit.
She's saying
she can get it, so...
Wait.
It's at
Midvale High. I'm en route.
Police?
Heading this way, fast.
You... you can't be found here.
We need to hide the ship.
Oh, uh... we could do
Groundhog Day.
You have go-to plays?
You... you can stay with us.
If she stays with you guys,
he stays with me.
Okay! Okay, let's go.
-Come on.
Here you go, bro.
Thank you.
Um, it's gonna be okay.
It's gonna be okay.
Just, um... chillax.
Ch--
Professor Tork,
I found another Kryptonian
like you asked.
-It's on the
same planet, but...
-But?
Do we really wanna go after it?
I mean, that male in Metropolis
was a lot.
My zoo needs
a new attraction, Mitch,
or we'll go out of business.
And if two Kryptonians
on the same planet
isn't a sign
that I should take one...
then I don't know what is.
I've never
met another alien
that wasn't Kara.
Do you honestly
always dress this formally?
Customarily, it's what we--
Kenny?
Mom. Look, I can explain.
Explain?
Explain why you ran in so fast,
I have to bring
your dinner to you?
Right, um... I was
at a study session with Kara,
but you didn't
have to bring me dinner.
It's no trouble.
Plus, I need to take a break
from doing the store books.
Don't worry about the books.
I'll, uh... I'll get them
done later tonight,
as soon as I finish
my homework.
Thanks, Mom.
-Oh! My--
-No--
Pal, time is of the essence.
Totes. I'll be out of your hair
as soon as I locate
your computer.
Bro, it's right here.
This is your best computer?
You...
It's... Sprock.
I'll make it work.
All right, next,
I need to find access
-to a 3
-D printer.
-A 3
-D printer?
Yes, just basic. Nothing fancy.
Brandon, I don't know
what you have on Psycon,
-but 3
-D printers
aren't basic here.
Some aerospace companies
-might have them under--
-This is 2009.
Well, yeah.
Still, can't you use your ring
to, you know,
Dumbledore something up?
No. What? No!
It's physically impossible
to create something
out of nothing, Kenny.
Uh...
What if I can
get you a something?
The building blocks
-of 3
-D printing
are an inkjet engine
and ABS plastic.
-Right?
-That's correct.
We have all that stuff
at our school STEM lab.
Plus, on Friday,
no one's really there.
Oh, we could
sneak onto campus early,
and then we'd have
the run of the whole place.
That could work. Well planned.
Uh, glad I could help.
So, will you be eating
all of this?
-Uh...
-Thank you.
-Thanks for this.
-It's nothing.
You said that you and Brandon
were fleeing a dying planet.
Does that mean
-your family, are they...
-Um...
My father was able to escape,
but my sister and I
don't really talk, and, um...
my mother passed away
before we had to flee.
I'm sorry.
I lost my mom, too.
But... this
was hers.
It's from Krypton.
I still remember
what it was like there.
I still remember her.
I love my Earth family,
but it's not the same
as being with people
who really understand you.
I know what you mean.
My powers are passed down
from mother to daughter,
but my mom died before
she could teach me
how to use them.
I've been doing my best
without her guidance...
but I am struggling.
You won't always feel that way.
It gets better.
Sometimes, I think
that if I could just call her,
and hear her voice,
I might be able to find
the confidence to keep going.
So, what can your powers do?
I mean,
beyond letting you be psychic
and move the Earth?
I can conjure these bubbles
that are just about
as strong as anything.
Cool.
I can do this.
What are you doing?
Uh...
-Showing each other
what we can do.
Well, neither of you
are doing that tomorrow.
Kenny just texted.
He and Brandon
are gonna be working
on fixing that box thing,
so, while he's doing that,
we're using Mom's ID
to slip into the college,
where we can get as much
dysprosium as we can.
Then we part ways.
I understand.
You're all taking
a big risk helping us.
I promise we'll be gone
as soon as we can.
Thank you.
Get some sleep.
Alex can be a control freak,
but you get used to it.
I'm sure I will.
Hello?
Brenda.
You're dressed!
Um... uh...
Is it go time?
You and I just need to be back
before my mom
heads out for work.
Let's go.
Come on.
No one should
bother you so long as
you keep the lights off.
Not to worry.
I once assembled
something similar
on the planet Neuron,
which orbits a black hole,
so, talk about, uh...
talk about dark.
This shouldn't be a problem.
That must be so cool,
having adventures like that.
It's so cool, man.
That's... that's what
I want to do, actually.
I mean, not, like,
be in space all the time,
but to go around with Kara,
helping people.
She and I
are staying local for college
to... to get better at it.
In fact, I, uh...
I just made us a base.
-Base?
-Here on Earth,
we have this alien hero
named Superman.
He lives in this secret bunker.
Oh.
Sounds ingenious.
Yeah, Kara
kinda looks up to him.
I see.
So, uh, you built yourself
a bunker-in-training.
I'm gonna show it to her
after graduation.
I really, really hope
she likes it.
Of course, she will.
There's nothing women like more
than physics well applied.
That and a modicum
of emotional vulnerability.
When I'm with Kara,
I feel like... like
I could do anything.
Well...
It appears your positivity
is catchy.
Nice.
Oh, uh...
-Well, I gotta get to my, um...
-Ah, not to fear.
I shall stay here
for the remaining minutes
to complete fabrication.
I don't know, man.
With that print rate,
your fab looks like
it's gonna take
remaining hours.
But, um... don't worry.
I'll be back for lunch.
Just don't open the door.
Or anything like that.
No, Perry, I don't have
anything to send yet,
because I've been here
less than 24 hours.
Yes, I am aware this is
outside the purview
of my gossip column,
but as discussed,
I want to do real news.
Based on my research,
I believe there is
some superbeing
behind the so-called miracles
in this town.
I'm going to find this being,
name them, and then,
do a story on them
that will blow Lois Lane
into the classified section.
Now, if you'll excuse me,
I have an interview...
as soon as I find
someone to talk to.
Excuse me, Professor Danvers.
CJ Grant, Daily Planet.
I'm looking into
some of the events
that have inspired this place
to be named
"the luckiest town in America."
Apparently, six months ago,
one of these phenomenons
happened here.
Oh?
Yes, nearby construction
caused this column to dislodge
and nearly crash
onto a group of students.
But before it could,
the column seemingly
flew back into place,
saving everyone.
Wow. Wow.
-Wow, that is amazing.
-Mm-hmm.
Well, that's the legend.
What I want is the truth.
As a professor, Dr. Danvers,
you must have heard something.
Your students
can chime in, too.
Oh. Oh, actually, um,
my students have just a big,
big project to get to.
Still, still,
I can say a few words.
Uh, I believe that we need
to look at the facts,
and the facts here,
suggest that nothing in Midvale
is worth finding.
Absolutely nothing.
Mm.
Every time I try to use
one of these things...
Come on.
Come on!
That is perfect.
You are the tenor
our Glee Club needs! Oh!
Come with me, now.
Unless there is another class
that I can escort you to?
Sprock.
There it is.
-It's locked.
-Here.
Brandon!
-Kenny.
-Brandon!
Dude! Wha--
-What's up, my dude?
-Where have you been?
I have been searching for you.
I thought we were
keeping a low profile.
Key events sidelined that goal.
I left our STEM lab
in search of sustenance
and immediately got conscripted
by a Glee Club Spartan chief.
Needing to preserve
my student cover, I agreed.
But that led me
to getting recruited
by your math league,
drama guild and...
Coach Kripkey...
who's desperately in need
of someone who can switch hit.
Wow, that is a lot of exposure.
Yes and, given my status,
a risky venture, but necessary
in order to avoid
unwanted attention,
or worse, a.m. detention
with Mrs. Gormley.
But still, I have to say,
it has been a revelation.
Are you familiar
with the emotion of stress?
I'm... I'm kind of feeling it
right now.
Well, I have been
struggling with the emotion,
and yet, I have been
under the impression
that my only options
were to stress eat
or not to stress eat.
But now, thanks to your school,
I see a cornucopia
of approaches.
Math leaguers factor,
drama clubbers soliloquize,
and baseballers hit.
Dude, that is fantastic.
But now that
you've seen all that,
do you, uh... do you maybe
want to get out of here?
Because if Alex finds out,
she's going to flip.
True.
Okay. But how do I exfiltrate?
I am a vassal of Coach Kripkey.
You just say
you're not feeling well
and you got to go to the nurse.
Oh. Okay, yes.
Another method
of coping chicanery.
Yes, I love it.
-Okay, okay. I will do it...
-Good.
...after one more line drive.
So... the reporter
didn't say anything
about me specifically?
No, but she gave me a feeling
like she believed me,
but if we make a misstep,
she's gonna pounce
faster than--
That guy almost killed us!
Yeah, and his truck
is full of gas.
Who drives like that?
No one.
In that truck,
no one's at the wheel.
Hey, maybe you should
slow down the truck, boss.
This is how
you get a Kryptonian
to reveal themselves.
Simply set the stage
for disaster,
and they can't help
but try and stop it.
We'll never
catch up to that truck.
I've got it.
Kara, no!
Where am I?
There's got to be some story
in this backwater.
Oh, the...
the brakes don't work.
Gear shift, either.
There's a bus straight ahead.
We have to stop this now!
The wheels.
Use your freeze breath
on the back axle.
Ship's altitude
moving to 500 feet.
Species confirmed.
We have a Kryptonian
and a Naltorian.
Excellent.
Stay the course!
Gun blast in five, four...
What the hell was that?
You didn't stay the course!
Circle around!
Oh, no!
We have another problem.
A Coluan has flown in!
Alex called
about a runaway truck?
It was gonna hit a bus.
Ah, I see.
There was also a blast
that came from overhead.
I think someone's
using a cloaking device.
I'll see what I can dream
while you both scan the sky.
Brenda... Brenda!
Brenda,
I found something.
-There.
There, I've got a lock.
The Coluan scanner has us!
Sir, we need to retreat!
Damn it, Mitch!
They're gone.
Guys, time to go.
That reporter's
right behind me.
Luckiest town, my ass.
Think!
Right.
Systems back online.
Cougar in a cage,
which obviously symbolizes...
Hi.
You've reached Isabel Nal.
-Mom.
-I'm so sorry
I missed your call.
Knowing me, I'm either
in the garden or the studio,
so, don't take it personally,
but please leave a message
and I'll be sure
to get back to you.
Have a great day.
I'm sorry.
We're telling Mom.
Alex,
wait, please.
You can't tell Eliza.
I can fix this.
-I swear.
-Fix this?
In less than 24 hours,
we have had
two alien encounters,
one of which was the impetus
for a break-in
at our mother's place of work,
which, if we get found out,
will likely be
her ex-place of work.
Oh, oh, and let's not forget
about the reporter
who is determined to expose
the luckiest town in America
as home of the newest
alien superhero.
So, tell me, Kara,
how will you fix this?
Well, who reads
the newspaper anymore?
This is too much for us
to handle on our own.
We need help and weapons.
Lots of them.
-Alex, please!
-We need to tell Mom.
Maybe she can get ahold
of someone at the DEO.
Okay. Okay.
You've been at college
for two years,
and now,
you have all the answers?
No, I've seen
what the real world is like.
And it's not risking the truth
of your identity to stop
runaway trucks.
It's about being responsible.
It's about making sacrifices
to ensure the best future
for yourself
and those you care about.
You...
You're saying
you've had to sacrifice for me?
We all have.
Mom sacrificed
her career for you.
Dad sacrificed his life.
You wanna know
why I skipped out
on going to Europe this year?
The one thing I wanted
just for me, gone,
because Mom
was worried about you.
And, as always, here I am.
Your powers...
they don't give you
carte blanche.
Maybe if you had
more life experience,
you'd be able to see that.
I have seen more solar systems
that you have dates,
so don't even.
If you're so mature,
then why haven't you told Kenny
about college
with him next year?
Where are you going?
To show you
how mature I really am.
I think I have
a lead on our attacker.
Is that the DEO database?
Future database, technically.
My Legion scanner
detected a rare
Bismolian energy signature
directly above that fuel truck.
Given the hostile nature
of the gambit,
I deduced
that these alien species
likely had a run-in
with the DEO at some point.
Accessing past information
about our present situation
-using future technology. Fun.
Two aliens manned
Bismolian ships
during this time.
One, an herbalist
named Saphrex Col
from Lasma.
Peaceful race, vegetarians.
The other, a Naxim Tork.
Home planet, unknown,
runs a cosmic menagerie.
Like a zoo?
Full of alien creatures,
possibly even oddly colored.
That's what the cougar
in my dreams is about.
Naxim Tork. That's our guy.
And look, it says the DEO
captured him in Uruguay
three days from now.
That's why
we lose track of him.
He takes off to South America.
-What?
-Brainy, what just happened?
-No, no, no, no, no.
Our actions
in this past, they...
they just changed
the space-time continuum.
Where is that blue light?
Mm.
This is palatable.
I feel like that might be
a compliment, coming from you.
Mm.
-You're a photographer?
-No.
But I do love a dark room.
I'm a journalist, actually.
Here on a big story.
You may know my work
from the Daily Planet.
-I am--
-Lois Lane.
Thirsty.
Better get rid of that smudge
on your lens.
Don't want to miss
your next scoop.
That's not a smudge,
that's a shadow...
of a spaceship.
Sorry!
Hey, kid. Wanna make 20 bucks?
Alex is still upset
about the super-ing, isn't she?
-I feel responsible.
-No.
No, don't.
I love doing that with you.
I don't ever
want that to change.
You know that, right?
Alex thinks
she's looking out for me,
for my future,
but... really,
she's just trying
to control it,
and... and she doesn't
need to control it
because I know
exactly what I'm doing...
what I need to do.
That's old man Watson's barn.
What are we doing?
You'll see.
Come on.
I was going to wait
until after graduation
to give you this...
but I know
you've been stressed,
and, uh, I thought
you could use a pick me up.
Welcome to our new
hero-ing base.
Oh...
Kenny.
All scans for Naxim
are inconclusive.
If we don't find
this Naxim Tork,
we will have torn
the fabric of space and time,
which could rewrite
the victors of wars,
create anomalies
where none existed,
erase entire existences!
Alex hasn't been able
to get ahold of Kara.
This is all my fault.
If I had just been able
to interpret my dream,
we would have been able
to catch this guy.
-I should have just
kept trying my mom.
-Kept trying who?
My mom. I called her.
Nia... How could you? Why--
Because I can't
interpret my dreams
and I need help.
I didn't talk to her. I just...
I just needed to hear her voice
and feel close to her.
So, I listened to her voicemail
and that's it.
Around the rugged rock,
the ragged rascal ran.
-the ragged rascal ran.
Around the rugged--
-Brainy?
Around the rugged rock,
the ragged rascal ran.
Brainy, what are you doing?
I'm coping.
High school, Nia,
with its many species
and subcultures,
each with its own tactics
of stress mitigation.
Now I thought that
given the extreme
circumstances,
that employing
all the coping mechanisms
I learned today would help.
But disappointingly,
they remain ineffective!
I'm sorry, you, uh...
you... you partook
in-in-in some, uh,
high school experience,
yes? Yeah?
Hmm? What-what-what subculture
did you adhere to?
I don't know.
I mostly tried
to keep to myself.
Please just... How did...
How did you cope?
I would sing my favorite song.
It's corny, but it made me feel
like I could do anything.
Please show me.
♪ Tumble out of bed
And I stumble to the kitchen ♪
♪ Pour myself
A cup of ambition ♪
♪ And yawn and stretch
And try to come to life ♪
♪ Jump in the shower
And the blood starts pumping ♪
♪ Out on the street
The traffic starts jumping ♪
♪ With folks like me on the job
From nine to five ♪
♪ Working nine to five
♪ What a way to make a living
Barely getting by ♪
♪ It's all taking
And no giving ♪
♪ They just use your mind
And they never
Give you credit ♪
♪ It's enough--
Naxim Tork's location
has been found.
Naxim's ship.
You okay?
Let's go.
Come here.
Do you know what this is?
It's the log
where we had our first kiss.
It's where
you changed my life, Kara.
This?
This is our future.
Our fortress.
So, uh... what did you
want to talk about?
Nia, I'm sorry
about my behavior earlier.
I should have been
more sensitive
about your mother.
I should have been
more cognizant
that being in a time
when your mother was alive
would conjure up feelings--
Brainy, I'm fine. It's okay.
Let's just catch the bad guys.
I don't understand.
Naxim Tork's ship
should be right here...
...but something's
jamming my scanner.
Well, I wouldn't be
a very good hunter
if the prey could
just see me, now, would I?
Consider hunting season
over, pal.
Well done, Professor.
I love it
when the animals talk back.
-It's one of the things I love
about this job, Mitch.
You just never know
what's going to happen next.